In Rear Window, Alfred Hitchcock masterly uses spatial editing, empowered by the Kuleshov effect, to elicit psychological reactions from the audience. Through the point of view of Jeff, Hitchcock engages the viewers to the scene and enables them to attain the emotions of the characters. Particularly, point-of-view cutting and elements of mise-en-scène considerably contribute to the spatial editing to create a suspenseful scene towards the ending in which Thorward catches Lisa in his apartment.
When Lisa gets caught after breaking into Thorward’s apartment, Hitchcock makes the cuts from the point-of-view shot on Thorward’s violent actions towards Lisa to the close-up on Jeff’s face. Although, in reality, those two shots might not have been filmed in the same space or in sequence, through spatial editing, the audience can conclude Jeff is actively staring at the apartment across from his and reacting to Thorward’s confrontation with Lisa. By making use of the Kuleshov effect, Hitchcock enables the viewers to make the connection between the two shots and infer Jeff’s fear and consternation. With the use of eyeline match, Hitchcock captivates the viewers’ full attention. The viewers are seeing exactly what Jeff is watching. As the camera distance turns to a close-up on Jeff, the viewers are curious about what is happening over at Thorward’s apartment and wondering about Lisa’s fate. Thus, the viewers can sense the tension that Jeff is feeling in the scene. Noticeably, the close-ups on Jeff’s facial expressions and trembling movements create a suspenseful nature of the scene. Moreover, in those close-ups, the source of lighting is from outside the window, thus highlighting Jeff’s face, especially his unblinking stare to the window pane in which Lisa is defending herself from Thorward. This element of mise-en-scène amplifies Jeff’s fearful trembles and mumbling, as well as captivates the viewers into the tension in the scene. 
Furthermore, by leaving out Stella’s face in the off-screen space and focusing the close-ups only on Jeff, Hitchcock manipulates the spatial editing to add more depths to the characters’ psychology that contributes to the film narrative. Although spatial editing connects the two apartments of Jeff and Thorward closer together, through Jeff’s helplessness on the wheelchair, Hitchcock indicates that the distance is still too far for Jeff to save his lover. The viewers, throughout the film, have been watching Jeff imposing his male superiority and authority over Lisa in their arguments. With the help of spatial editing, Hitchcock develops a deep gender power dynamics as he empowers Lisa, the female character, to take heroic actions like breaking into Thorward’s apartment, while only lets the male character, Jeff, to watch from afar and react passively through his apartment window.  
Overall, with the brilliant use of the spatial editing technique, Hitchcock makes use of the Kuleshov effect and elements of mise-en-scène to create a powerful and intense scene in the ending that captures Jeff’s fear and helplessness and highlights the female power showcased by Lisa. 
