On Monday, May 17, a coalition of Vassar students called #VCStrike announced a tuition strike for the Fall 2021 semester. The move comes on the heels of a year full of student activism within the Vassar community, with movements such as the Nobody Fails Vassar College campaign and the more recent Vassar Leftist Union’s $15 minimum wage petition.
Inspired by past efforts of the Columbia-Barnard Young Democratic Socialists of America (YDSA) and students at the University of Chicago, the Vassar tuition strike is intended to protest the College Administration and Board of Trustees’ inaction on popular student demands. The core organizing group, #VCStrike, is an unofficial student organization composed of 10 members from a range of different student organizations, class years and personal backgrounds. 
Plans for the tuition strike were sparked by the administration’s inaction in the face of a series of student demands and petitions that took place over the past 14 months as a response to the exacerbation of inequities caused by the coronavirus pandemic. #VCStrike cited these initiatives in a tuition strike pledge circulated amongst Vassar community members.
“At the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in March, students immediately denounced the injustice of the 4% tuition hike, a change which was announced on the heels of the move to online learning and at the onset of an economic depression,” the pledge read. They continued, “This was followed in short order by widespread student support for a Universal Pass or Double-A grading system in the face of that semester’s unprecedented (and unequal) shifts in learning conditions.”
In an interview with the Miscellany News, Vassar Student Union (VSU) member and #VCStrike organizer Joe Mangan ’23 justified the radical nature of the tuition strike. He stated, “Given the administration’s history of ignoring petitions, [it] didn’t seem like things…could even come about through a simple petition.” 
Mangan also noted that the strike is intended to address other chronic issues between students and administration that existed prior to the pandemic, most notably the decade-long student campaign for the College’s divestment in the fossil fuel industry. Even after a 400-student sit-in in front of the President’s Office and a 91 percent approval rating amongst the student body in 2016, the Board’s Trustee Investor Responsibility Committee (TIRC) voted unanimously against divesting. Mangan proclaimed, “This is a shocking example of just a blatant disregard of virtually every form of nonviolent protest you can possibly make.”
To address these issues, #VCStrike set forth a list of 17 demands for the College, some of which include a three-year freeze on tuition and room and board fees; College divestment from fossil fuels; divestment from the prison industrial complex and military industrial complex; and the inclusion of a No-Fail grading policy.
