In the article “Beatles Tell What They Think of U.S”, the Beatles themselves shared their perspectives on American teenagers, who significantly idolized the Beatles. Thus, this piece of news can act as an appropriate supplement to the essay “Beatlemania: Girls Just Want to Have Fun” by Ehrenreich, Hess and Jacobs. 
To begin with, The Beatles considered their fangirls from the U.S. to be markedly older than they really were. That is to say, the ways the American adolescent girls were dressing in an adultery way and acting in falsely mature manners. These are the characteristics of young women from the phenomenon of Beatlemania. According to  Ehrenreich, Hess and Jacobs, those girls had the urge to defy conformity in the society by fulfilling their “responsibilities to be sexy, glamorous and attractive.” To the Beatles, those features of American teenagers were just a cultural difference, which made them distinguishable from the Beatles’ fangirls from, for example, England or France. However, underlying it was the pressure of a teenage girl to have a name for herself at her high school, which would unnoticeably diminish her self-esteem. 
Furthermore, the Beatles acknowledged their distinctiveness in appearance that somewhat made them more unique in America: their long hair and British gestures. In the words of Dr. Joyce Brothers, the Beatles held rather feminine mannerisms, which were attractive for teenage fans because it ensured that the adoration of them for the Beatles would not cross the boundaries of sexuality. In some aspects, the Beatles did not savor their peculiarity because they knew that they would allure their adolescent fangirls, but they were really special in the way they endure their identity and values. They didn’t change themselves and their images just for the sake of the new market. Nonetheless, they could still guarantee their own success in the U.S., based on their prominent sale in America before they came there, given the quote of Paul McCartney. 
Last but not least, the Beatles were aware of their fans’ obsession with them. Notwithstanding, they accredited it with a dispassionate stance. When they admitted that there was no chance for them to make out a single thing their fans were screaming, some might say that they were taking their fans for granted. Nevertheless, it was not the case. In the end, it was the truth that no one could deny: of course, they could not hear what their fans were trying to say while singing in front of such a huge audience. Nonetheless, they knew what their fans wanted. Thus, they were satisfying their fans, which was also the main responsibility of the performers. It is reasonable to infer that the Beatles, by being self-conscious of their fans’ craze for them and quite amused at it, were contributing to the Beatlemania phenomenon themselves. 
In the end, the article from the Beatles provides a deeper glimpse into the perspective of the other end of such a craze and obsession of the phenomenon called Beatlemania. In addition, it also enables us to better comprehend the actions and behaviors of the teenagers who intensely revered the Beatles. 